Parabolic SAR 


NIST 

Service Models  - SaaS, IaaS, PaaS

Essential characterstics

On demand self service
Broad nw access
Resource pooling
Rapid elasticity
Measured Service

Deployment Models

private cloud
community cloud
public cloud
Hybrid cloud

https://aws.amazon.com 
baskar.arunachalam@gmail.com
Saroxxxx$24

https://baskar24.signin.aws.amazon.com/console 

Amazon S3
Simple Storage Service - S3

AMI - Amazon Machine Image

Lambda 
IAM - Identify and Access Management
Need to create a bucket policy 

Elastic compute  cloud (EC2)
IaaS  - EC2 is comes under IaaS category

Use cases EC2
Backend server
Database server
General purpose server
Web Server

a vm in EC2 is called  an instance (EC2 instance) and booting service and storage, operating systems are stored  in EBS - Elastic Block Storage.  EFS(elastic file system) is a NAS drive - Network attached storage. Auto scaling is another point in EC2

Lambda - is  a serverless architure for doing computation within cloud

Compute, Storage, Database, Networking and  Content Delivery, Developer tools,
WAF -  Web application firewall


AWS AR & VR 
Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality

AWS Certificates 
1  Associate
2  Professional
3  Speciality - Networking and Big data

Associate level we have 3 certification AWS Certified soluion architect, AWS Certified Developer  and AWS Certified SysAdmin

In professional level - AWS Certified soluion architect Professional, AWS Certified DevOps Engineer professional, 
http://levelupcloud.com 


EC2 Notes:

If you want an instance as a web server then port details should be added in Step 6 - Sec urity group configuration add tag


my aws windows details
ec2-13-127-101-24.ap-south-1.compute.amazonaws.com
public ip address;  13.127.101.24

Public DNS	ec2-13-127-101-24.ap-south-1.compute.amazonaws.com
User name	Administrator
Password	EfV2Er$.davr43PyXWCe-ydm=bPC(via

AWS Associate Exam
Andy Jasy 

AWS this week - AWS updated  youtube channel
IAM -  Identity access management
PCI DSS Compliance - Credit card authentication framework
MFA - Multi factor authentication  
User, Group, Policies and Roles are 4 componenets of IAM

S3 
------
http://S3-eu-west-1/amazonaws.com/$bucketName
s3 Storage and classes
S3 Standard
S3 - IA (Infrequently accessed) Lesser cost and retrieval fee 
s3 - One zone
Glazier - Expedited, Bulk and Standard

cloudfront is amazon CDN network
we cannot install databases in S3 (object based storage) whereas DB which is block based storage 
Read after write consistancy for new objects placed in S3
Eventual consistancy  for puts and Deletes (may not be available immediately.  There could be some amount of delay

CDN: Content distribution network  or cloud front

Edge 
Origin wheere it  is deplo
S3 bucket, EC2 
Distribution - Name given to CDN which is collection of edge locations
KMS - key Managed Service 
SSE - Server side encryption 
https://www.trek10.com/blog/aws-s3-permissions/
http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/UsingClientSideEncryption.html   

AWS Storage Gateway:
File Gateway - Uses NFS
Volume Gateway - Uses Block storage iSCSI
EBS Elastic Block store
Volume Gateway - cached volume
VG - Stored Volume

GW Virtual Tape library -  VTL

My S3 Exam result 
What you know
S3 has what consistency model for PUTS of new objects
What is AWS Storage Gateway?
What does RRS stand for when talking about S3?
You have been asked by your company to create an S3 bucket with the name "acloudguru1234" in the EU West region. What would be the URL for this bucket?
What is Amazon Glacier?
What does S3 stand for?
You are a solutions architect who works with a large digital media company. The company has decided that they want to operate within the Japanese region and they need a bucket called "testbucket" set up immediately to test their web application on. You log in to the AWS console and try to create this bucket in the Japanese region however you are told that the bucket name is already taken. What should you do to resolve this?
What is the availability on RRS?
What is the minimum file size that I can store on S3?
The difference between S3 and EBS is that EBS is object based where as S3 is block based.
You work for a busy digital marketing company who currently store their data on premise. They are looking to migrate to AWS S3 and to store their data in buckets. Each bucket will be named after their individual customers, followed by a random series of letters and numbers. Once written to S3 the data is rarely changed, as it has already been sent to the end customer for them to use as they see fit. However on some occassions, customers may need certain files updated quickly, and this may be for work that has been done months or even years ago. You would need to be able to access this data immediately to make changes in that case, but you must also keep your storage costs extremely low. The data is not easily reproducible if lost. Which S3 storage class should you choose to minimise costs and to maximise retrieval times?
You need to use an Object based storage solution to store your critical, non replaceable data in a cost effective way. This data will be frequently updated and will need some form of version control enabled on it. Which S3 storage solution should you use?
You work for a health insurance company who collects large amounts of documents regarding patients health records. This data will be used usually only once when assessing a customer and will then need to be securely stored for a period of 7 years. In some rare cases you may need to retrieve this data within 24 hours of a claim being lodged. Which storage solution would best suit this scenario? You need to keep your costs as low as possible.
You run a popular photo sharing website that is based off S3. You generate revenue from your website via paid for adverts, however you have discovered that other websites are linking directly to the images on your site, and not to the HTML pages that serve the content. This means that people are not seeing your adverts and every time a request is made to S3 to serve an image it is costing your business money. How could you resolve this issue?
What you should review
One of your users is trying to upload a 7.5GB file to S3 however they keep getting the following error message - "Your proposed upload exceeds the maximum allowed object size.". What is a possible solution for this?
Lecture 12 S3 - 101

What is the durability on RRS?
What is the durability on S3?
What is the availability on S3?
S3 has eventual consistency for which HTTP Methods?
Lecture 12 S3 - 101

You run a meme creation website that frequently generates meme images. The original images are stored in S3 and the meta data about the memes are stored in DynamoDB. You need to store the memes themselves in a low cost storage solution. If an object is lost, you have created a Lambda function that will automatically recreate this meme using the original file in S3 and the metadata in Dynamodb. Which storage solution should you consider to store this non-critical, easily reproducible data on in the most cost effective solution as possible?
Lecture 12 S3 - 101
